Concept: Redirections (#736)
exercism/bash: concepts/redirection/about.md

# About Redirection

In the world of the command-line interface, programs often interact with three standard data streams:

1. **Standard Input** (`stdin`): Where a program receives its input (typically from the keyboard).
1. **Standard Output** (`stdout`): Where a program sends its normal output (typically to the terminal screen).
1. **Standard Error** (`stderr`): Where a program sends error messages (typically to the terminal screen).

Recall that we introduced these in the [Pipelines and Command Lists][pipelines] chapter.

~~~~exercism/note
Pipelines can be considered a form of redirection: the standard output from one program is sent directly to the standard input of another.

> But we've already covered pipelines.
> This document is about redirecting to and from files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've already covered pipelines.
This concept will cover redirecting to and from files.
```

Redirection is performed **before** the command is executed.
This means you cannot redirect to the same file you need to read from.

```bash
date > date.txt         # populate the file with the current date
cat date.txt > date.txt # 'date.txt' is now empty!
```

In the second command of the above example,

1. Bash first truncates the file named in the redirection.
   This destroys the previous contents, leaving an empty file.
2. Then bash reads the newly empty file.
3. Then bash writes the contents (i.e., nothing) back to the file.
~~~~

### `>>` (Append Output Redirection)

* Purpose: Append the standard output (`stdout`) of a command to a file.
* Behavior:
  * If the file doesn't exist, it is created.
  * If the file exists, the output is added to the end of the file.
* Example:

  ```bash
  # Adds "Another line" to the end of the file
  echo "Another line" >> file_listing.txt
  ```

### `<` (Input Redirection)

* Purpose: Redirect the standard input (`stdin`) of a command from a file.
* Behavior: The command reads its input from the specified file instead of the keyboard.
* Example:

  ```bash
  # 'tr' reads from 'lowercase.txt' and
  # output is redirected to 'uppercase.txt'

>   tr 'a-z' 'A-Z' < lowercase.txt > uppercase.txt

Reviewer: Hah! Good job finding a core util that doesn't accept filenames as args.

  ```

### `2>` (Error Redirection):

* Purpose: Redirect the standard error (`stderr`) of a command to a file.
* Behavior: Error messages are sent to the specified file instead of the terminal.
* Example:
  ```bash
  # Error message from 'rm' is sent to 'error_log.txt'
  rm non_existent_file 2> error_log.txt
  ```

You can _append_ standard error to a file with `2>>`.

### Additional Redirections

There are also redirections that can merge both `stdin` and `stderr`.
See the [manual][manual] for details.

## `/dev/null`

`/dev/null` is a special file that

* is an empty file when you read from it, and
* discards all data written to it.

It is sometimes referred to as "the bitbucket".
It is useful for suppressing output or errors.

```bash

> some_command > /dev/null  # Discards stdout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
some_command < /dev/null  # Runs a command with an empty stdin stream; this prevents the command from reading from the keyboard
some_command > /dev/null  # Discards stdout
```

```

~~~~exercism/advanced
## File Descriptors

In the context of shell programming and operating systems like Linux/Unix, a file descriptor (FD) is a non-negative integer that serves as an identifier or handle for an open file or I/O (Input/Output) resource.
Think of it like a label or a reference number that the operating system uses to keep track of open files and data streams.

The numbers you see on the left-hand side of redirections are file descriptors.

The standard I/O streams are given the first 3 file descriptors:

* standard input is FD 0
* standard output is FD 1
* standard error is FD 2

New file descriptors can be set or created with the `exec` command and redirection operators.

```bash
# create FD 3 as a copy of stdout
exec 3>&1
# send stdout to a log file
exec > log.txt

# then redirect both stdout and file descriptor 3
echo "some debug message" >&3  # displayed in the terminal
some_command  2>&1 # stdout and stderr send to 'log.txt'
```

This technique looks quite convoluted, but it can be very useful in situations where your script is being run by some other software package, and standard output is automatically captured by the software.

> The `bats` command works like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bats` command, used to run the unit tests for this track, works like this.
```
